I didn't really know what to put here, so here's the full BERSERK lore in 2222 words.

Chronologically, the story of Berserk begins with the Golden Age story arc, which in turn started with Guts' birth. One day, a mercenary band led by a gruff man named Gambino happened upon a ghastly tree with over a dozen executed people hanging from nooses while ravens flew about. To Gambino's surprise, a newborn baby boy was found right under his deceased mother, and a young woman in Gambino's group named Cis promptly adopted the infant as her own. Thus, the infant gained Gambino and Cis as foster parents, forming a pragmatic found family. Three years later, the boy, named Guts, could only watch as his foster mother died of an illness, leaving Gambino as his sole foster parent. By age 6, Guts was already training with swords under Gambino's tutelage, and even as a child, Guts was confident that battle was his only reason for being. He lived and would die by the sword.

At age 9, Guts suffered a terrible trauma when Gambino allowed one of his men to violate Guts one night, leaving Guts with mental scars, though Guts did get revenge and kill the perpetrator the next day in battle. By age 11, Guts was a formidable swordsman, and he fled the mercenary gang when his Gambino attacked him in a drunken rage, only to accidentally die by Guts' blade. Guts was alone for the first time but refused to die. Then he joined and fought with another, more benevolent mercenary army until age 15, when he left them, too. Then, the Golden Age story arc truly began when Guts had a fateful encounter with a mercenary army called the Band of the Hawk.

Guts joined the Band of the Hawk when its leader, the charismatic Griffith, defeated Guts in a sword duel and made Guts "his," much to the surprise of Casca, a high-ranking member of the Band. Guts fought alongside his new found family for three years in the Kingdom of Midland, all while Griffith slowly set his grand scheme into motion. Griffith aspired to have his own kingdom and would do anything to make that happen, as Casca was acutely aware of. The Band of the Hawk became Midland's heroes when Griffith captured Fort Doldrey and ended Midland's century-long war with the kingdom of Tudor, all while Guts and Casca went from unfriendly rivals to friends. Also, Guts and Griffith faced the monstrous Nosferatu Zodd, who warned them about a great fateful event that would happen in one year.

Griffith became the darling of the kingdom, and with Guts' aid, he escaped a few assassination attempts by the royal court's jealous members. Even the queen of Midland paid the ultimate price for trying to kill Griffith, while the king's daughter, Princess Charlotte, absolutely loved him. Then, Guts shocked everyone when he quit the Band to pursue his own vaguely defined dream, much to Griffith's dismay. By then, Griffith may have been in love with Guts or something close to it, so he took Guts' departure badly. He seduced Charlotte and got himself imprisoned for it, which prompted the Midland king to declare the Band of the Hawk a rogue group to be destroyed. The Band's surviving members fled, with Casca as their new leader.

Guts returned to the Band to rescue Griffith, and he and Casca, who understood each others' scars, became lovers. Griffith was rescued and evacuated from the royal capital, but a year of torture had significantly weakened him. Griffith briefly considered abandoning his dream and settling down with Casca, then changed his mind as the fated Eclipse unfolded. Griffith used the Egg of the King to summon the four members of the God Hand, then offered every Band of the Hawk member as a sacrifice for power. Nearly every Band member died, and Guts lost his right eye and left hand in the process. Griffith was reborn as Femto, the God Hand's fifth member, and violated Casca before Guts' eyes just because he could. Then, the mysterious Skull Knight rescued both Guts and Casca as the Eclipse ended and the God Hand vanished.

Casca's mind was broken from the trauma, unable to even speak, while Guts vowed vengeance against his former friend Griffith. He geared up for a new, darker adventure, complete with a prosthetic left hand and his trademark Dragonslayer sword, and he set off to get even with Griffith.

The next arc was also one of Berserk's shortest, showing Guts at his lowest point. By then, he had been separated from Casca, and he wandered Midland aimlessly, during which time he met a fairy-like elf named Puck, who volunteered to be his companion. That arc also showed Guts fighting Apostles, or supernatural creatures who made a deal with the God Hand, including a local ruler known simply as the Count. Guts and the Count became enemies, and along the way, Guts found a large behelit, his first hint that the God Hand was involved. Guts fought and defeated the Count's forces, only for the God Hand to appear in person, much to Guts' rage.

The desperate Count tried to bargain with the God Hand's members, including Femto/Griffith. Still, he was unwilling to sacrifice his beloved daughter, Theresia, to complete the deal and get stronger. The Brand of Sacrifice appeared but never reached Theresia, sparing her life. Meanwhile, the Count was dragged into the abyss, and the God Hand departed before Guts could make another move. That arc ended when Guts gruffly encouraged a traumatized, orphaned Theresia to take control of her own life and get stronger from her anger. However, Guts was also secretly heartbroken by Theresia's fate.

In the Conviction story arc, the wandering Guts met a young girl named Jill, who couldn't stand her dysfunctional home life, wishing to flee and remake her life elsewhere. Her soldier father sometimes hit her and often complained, but Jill saw an out — her friend Rosine, who had since become a moth-like Apostle. When Guts arrived, he met Jill and battled Rosine, defeating the latter in a tense clash. Jill, fearing she had nowhere left to turn, begged Guts to take her along and protect her, but Guts refused to expose Jill to the violence and darkness of his life. He was an antihero hellbent on revenge, after all, and Apostles and undead spirits attacked him every night. Instead, Guts encouraged Jill to return home and win her own personal battles. An empowered Jill did just that, and Guts moved on.

Guts' next adventure pitted him against the Holy Iron Chain Knights, a ceremonial group serving the Holy See. Guts and the knight Farnese Vandimion clashed, only for Guts to save her from Apostles, and he escaped. Farnese then started having a crisis of faith, and her boss, Father Mozgus, encouraged her to strengthen her resolve in the face of perceived heresy in the land. Farnese used to enjoy capturing and burning heretics, but by that point in Berserk, Farnese was less certain than ever that capturing, torturing and killing so many so-called heretics was the right move. Around this time, a strange creature stirred near the Tower of Albion, a behelit-like Apostle who was ready for the next turn of history.

Casca was seen near the Tower of Albion, sticking close to a responsible, kind-hearted young woman named Luca, who did her best to protect her friends from hunger and other hardships at the huge camp surrounding the Tower. Mozgus then had Casca taken to the Tower to be tortured just as Guts was arriving on the scene, and darkness poured forth from Casca, throwing everything into utter chaos. While Luca protected her friends, Guts fought to rescue Casca, and Farnese started to see Guts as a hero rather than an enemy. The God Hand's members appeared in an indirect form, much to Guts' anger, but there wasn't much that Guts could do about them.

The Conviction arc climaxed when Guts battled Mozgus' Apostle form and won, saving Casca at last. At the same time, Griffith was reborn yet again as a glorious white hawk, spreading his symbol all over Midland for all to see, including the aging, diseased king. Griffith wordlessly promised to protect all the people from the impending age of horror when monsters and an invading army would turn the world upside down. The Skull Knight felt the same way, aware that a new, even more brutal age was about to dawn.

The Falcon of the Millennium Empire arc launched a new war in Berserk's story, one far bloodier and more consequential than the Midland-Tudor war ever was. A foreign nation called the Kushan Empire launched an all-out invasion of Midland, capturing vast swaths of territory while monsters of all kinds appeared all over the place. The fantasy elements of Berserk became much stronger at that point, and there was still more to come. Midland's defenders were powerless before the Kushan Empire's invasion, so it fell to the reborn Griffith to halt the invading armies with his all-new Band of the Hawk. Most of the new Band's members were Apostles, making them far stronger than the original Band, and Griffith himself had become nigh-untouchable by then.

Battle scenes in this arc showed Griffith handily defeating the invading Kushans, swiftly making him a glorious hero in the eyes of practically everyone in Midland, from Princess Charlotte to everyday farmers and traders and more. Meanwhile, Griffith's former friend Guts was embarking on a more personal campaign based not on armies and glory but on assembling a found family. Guts' days as a bitter, lone wanderer were over — now he was ready to form real bonds of friendship.

In that arc, Guts accepted the redeemed Farnese as his new companion and Farnese's half-brother and bodyguard Serpico joined, too, along with Casca. Soon after that, a brash boy named Isidro joined Guts' team and vowed to become a great swordsman like Guts someday. Then, Guts' new found family ventured into a forest, where they met a young witch named Schierke and her mentor, Flora. Guts fought a battle, one that he couldn't win alone. So, Guts seized and wore the mysterious berserker armor from Flora's cottage, granting himself immense strength at the cost of straining his body. Also, Guts' Brand of Sacrifice had a seal placed on it to keep Apostles from tracking him down, much to Guts' relief.

Next, Guts' team, with Schierke as the newest member, ventured to a coastal city to board a ship and find Elfhelm, where Casca might be healed. In the process, Guts' team got caught up in the Midland versus Kushan war, with Guts personally fighting Kushan forces to protect the burning city. The invasion reached its climax when Emperor Ganishka, the Kushan leader, became a titanic Apostle who could trample entire armies underfoot. It fell to Griffith, riding on Nosferatu Zodd's back, to defeat Ganishka, and right after that, Griffith activated the Great Roar of the Astral World. The border between the material world and the astral world broke down, allowing fantasy monsters like dragons, hydras and more to spread across the land, ending that story arc on a dire, alarming note.

The ongoing Fantasia arc split its narrative between Guts and Griffith, who each made significant strides toward their respective goals. Griffith, who saw leftover Kushan troops and many fantasy monsters on the loose, consolidated the weary Midland kingdom into a smaller, newer realm: Falconia. Griffith's territory was effectively a city-state, a well-defended place that glorified Griffith the white falcon in many ways. The desperate, grateful people of Midland poured into Falconia to escape the dangerous world, meaning Griffith and his lieutenants now had the challenge of statecraft to deal with. Griffith ruled Falconia with a steady hand, trusting his lieutenants like Locus and even Princess Charlotte, his fiancée. However, Rickert, a surviving member of the original Band, was more skeptical of Griffith's leadership.

Guts and his friends boarded a ship led by Captain Roderick and set out to sea. They first arrived at an unnamed island, where they met a friendly mermaid named Isma before battling the gigantic Sea God, a kraken-like creature. Guts needed the berserker armor to defeat it, but that was a risky move since its power was starting to corrupt Guts' mind more than ever, tempting him to destroy everyone and everything around him, Casca included. In a way, Guts was becoming a half-other hero as the Beast of Darkness twisted his mind.

Next, after defeating some hostile pirates, Guts' crew arrived at Skellig Island, the secluded land of fairies and witches, a peaceful and beautiful place far removed from Midland's woes. Guts met the Flower Storm Monarch, leader of the Elfhelm realm on Skellig, and then Schierke and Farnese used their combined magic to venture into Casca's mind. There, they saw Casca's moments of love and trauma, including the Eclipse, and they succeeded in restoring Cacsa's mind and memories.

Casca reunited with Guts rather cautiously, but their reunion didn't last long. Griffith appeared and captured Casca, setting off powerful earthquakes that destroyed Skellig. A horrified Guts was helpless to stop Casca's abduction, and around him, Skellig's people were distraught at losing their homes. From there, Guts and his friends will have to fight hard and keep hope alive to rescue Casca and finally bring justice to the world.

The story will continue...